Excellence in Music
The Cumberland Valley Chord Factory is committed to being the premier all-male a capella vocal ensemble in the Cumberland Valley. This dedicated group of men performs a variety of music including inspirational, patriotic and popular charts from old to new. For information about becoming a member, visit our membership page. For information about booking click here.

About
During the Fall of 2012, a small group of men came together with a vision.  The men wanted to create a premier all-male a capella ensemble that would provide quality entertainment throughout the Cumberland Valley.  After a few rehearsals and planning sessions, The Cumberland Valley Chord Factory was born later in the Fall.  The group is a diverse group of men from varying backgrounds and ages.  While some have many years of music experience, others do not.  We all share in common the quest for musical excellence.  While we are just getting started, the Chord Factory has many different songs in their repertoire.  Some of these songs include, “I Believe”, “Prayer of the Children”, “God Bless the USA”, and “Harmony” plus several others.  We try to maintain a balance of inspirational, patriotic, and popular songs to provide entertainment for everyone.  If you love to sing, we would like to hear from you.

This is a test

Founding Members

Jeff Avey – Jeff is our music geek and leader/teacher.  He has been singing for many years and has been an award-winning director in the Barbershop Harmony Society.  He is currently a music educator with Allegheny County Schools.

Greg Brown – Greg has been singing his entire life in some form or another.  Greg has been a member of the Barbershop Harmony Society for 15 years and has sang with some of the top choruses in the world.  Greg has served in the US Army and currently resides in Keyser, WV with his two sons.

Ted Toner

Bill Helmick

Daniel

Ed Thompson

Marlin Bender

Bobby



Membership
Membership in the Cumberland Valley Chord Factory is open to all men of any age.  The ensemble employes several methods of teaching and learning music so that knowing how to read music is not required.

There are two steps to becoming a member.

The prospective member requests candidacy for membership.  During this step the member will:
Complete vocal placement assessment for voice part determination (if needed)
Rehearse with members to gain familiarity of music and singing with the ensemble
Receive all music and learning tracks for audition
Complete audition
Audition piece will be selected song that will be the same for all candidates
Audition will be performed with 3 other members (as a quartet) who have demonstrated proficiency on the song
Audition will be performed for the music team and the final decision will be decided by the team
If the candidate does not pass the audition process, but the music team feels the candidate has demonstrated enough musical ability, the candidate will be provided feedback to be used for improvement and a second audition will be scheduled
What we are looking for during the audition.

We are not looking for perfection.  We are evaluating three different areas.  Those areas are:

The ability to memorize music.  (Do you know the notes and words?)
The ability to sing on key.  (Can you sing in key?)
The ability to perform with an ensemble.  (Can you blend your voice to fit the sound of the ensemble?)
Passing the Audition

Once you have passed the audition and paid your yearly dues ($25) you will then be a full member.  You will be provided all music and learning tracks for the repertoire at this time.



If you are interested in singing with us we ask that you come to a rehearsal to get a feel for the group.  This will allow you to determine if membership in the Cumberland Valley Chord Factory is for you.  We look forward to seeing you as we work to grow our ensemble.